

This is going to be a comprehensive write up for the comprehensive plans for my "final solution" project Stalingrad.  The reason for the name is it's a metaphor for the importance of this battle.  World war two was literally decided by this legendary battle.  It is notorious for it's savagery of battle between combatants, the insanity of Hitler that was at this point past the point of being able to deny, and the l and legendary final stand of Paulis's 6th army before breaking the direct orders of Hitler and surrendering the entire army to the Allies.

But the real reason I am using this name is because this battle represents the last stand and eventual turning point of the greatest conflict in human history.  And the reasons for that are varied.  As much as it can be credited to the heroic and costly mettle of the Russian armies there were, behind the scenes many much more subtle and lesser known factors that contributed greatly, particularly when compounded, to turn the course of this battle.

Things a simple as timing and the weather played a decisive role in the defeat of the Wehrmacht on the eastern front.  Most historians agree that Russia only survived by two weeks as the SS closed in to Moscow, where savage fighting was already happening in the suburbs and outskirts.  By this time the infamous Russian winter hit hard and early and froze the Germans out stalling their advance and allowing the red army to counter attack with over 3 million soldiers and not looking back until they finally took Berlin.

So what does this have to do with anything I'm sure you asking yourself by this point.

The reason this project takes the name Stalingrad is because this is my last stand, and hopefully, if the creator sees fit, where I finally turn the tide of the battle, that has recently seemed closer ever to being lost, and start to slowly claw my life back.  After the whole facebook incident and losing everything I owned, including my very name itself, it's taken a long time to deal with the anger, the shame and embarrassment, the near impossibility of finding a decent job of any kind, the resulting Dickensian level of poverty and the realisation that my name and reputation were mud.

Not to say that the entire past 15 years were a complete and total write off.  I've managed to find and somehow hold onto the love of my life, my partner and best friend, and partner and crime extraordinaire .  I've managed to earn two college diplomas and various other certifications,   had the experience of coding, releasing, and operating a proprietary web application called HushCircuits that has actually made some money, done some successful web development and computer repair work for clients that were for the most part, overwhelmingly happy with the results they received, played in and promoted a few bands (which is in many ways very much like running a business), and helped both friends and family with their businesses in various capacities from working at our old Jupiter store, to building websites to helping with marketing and much more.

But more importantly I've researched.  Yes its true, I may have spent the better part of a decade or more in bed due to severe mental illness, but I haven't just been laying there watching Pawn Stars  No, I've been reading and researching and listening to podcasts and engaging in deep conversations with my AI assistant chats about every topic a brain as large as mine could possibly indulge.

But being from a sociological background I've studied people.  And I've really studied business.  From capitalism's earliest days in Holland with the Dutch East Indies company to the gilded age super rich like JP Morgan, Andrew Carnegie and John Rockefeller, to the mavericks like Thomas Edison and his battle of the currents with Tesla, the the man I believe has had the biggest influence on modern society Henry Ford through the man who has had the biggest impact on modern geopolitics (and likely the most notorious man in history) Adolph Hitler, you name it I've studied it at an academic level.

I've also lived through the biggest business "goldrush", the internet, from it's earliest beginnings.  I was fortunate to be born at the right time in history and to have had a natural aptitude for tech where I quite literally had a front row seat while we all watched the internet grow from some obscure thing nerds chatted on to the most powerful technology humanity has ever invented.

In fact I often consider myself an exceedingly rare "pre-internet" OG as I was not only cruising the precursor to the internet local BBC's, but I even ran my own for a short time.  I literally watched the internet grow from something so tiny and niche, but with such obvious potential into the massive entity that it is today.  And while the internet grew so did the newest class of ultra rich and powerful, the silicone valley type new money billionaires.  

These are the guys who have changed the world from behind a keyboard, and become insanely wealthy along the way.  They proved, definitively, that it was possible to get rich and powerful via the internet.  And I literally watched it all happen right from the front row.  I would often lement to myself that had I only been a few years younger, I might have been one of those pioneers in the tech world who changed everything with an idea.  

The reality is most of those early tech guys, the Steve Jobs and Mark Zuckerburg's of the world, statistically have about 10 years on me.  I first got online somewhere around 92 or 93 when I was 12 years old.  No one would argue that the difference between 12 and 22 is only 10 years, but in no part of a humans lifetime, it could be argued, are those 10 years more wide than between 12 and 22.  I was just too young to see the big picture.  To have the education, maturity, wisdom and patience never mind the entrepreneurial spirit t real to have ever had a chance to have made any impact back then.

I was too busy pirating music from napster and playing doom over the internet like a 12 year old should be to have done anything then.  But I was there and that was enough.

But getting back to the industrial giants of the past there is more in common with the industrialists of the 18th century and the tech giants of today then one might realise initially.  The one thing every single one of these guys had in common, without exception, was the acute ability to see an opportunity, and to pounce on it.  This isn't just true of the ultra rich and powerful but universally true of successful people anywhere at any time in history.

Now I don't think that anyone would argue that we are again on the cusp, on the very brink, of a gold rush that is going to make a lot of people very wealthy.  And the engine of that wealth is going to be AI.  There isn't anyone who hasn't seen the power, even in tiny examples, of the power and potential of the AI revolution.  But what makes me so sure that it will be so lucrative?

There are a few obvious indications if you again look through the smoky lens of history.  

For example it is almost common knowledge at this point that recently data has overtaken oil as the most valuable commodity on the planet.  And no, we are not talking about the cloak and dagger type intelligence that has no intrinsic financial value of its own and is more a strategic commodity.  No we are talking about big data, the data that is being mined from us from our most basic interactions with the modern world like how long you watch an ad for before you move on or how much of a song you listen to before you change it.  The kind of data that can be packaged and analysed and quantified.

What if I told you that the most valuable commodity in the history of the world had more to do with that old Dutch East Indies company than it did anything in the modern world?  What if I told you that Greek philosophers had written on this commodity as had nations faught civil wars over it?

What would you guess it was?

The most valuable commodity, by far without even a close second, more than even "grey commodities" like tobacco or liquor, more than even cocaine and heroin, was slavery.  A successful investment in a slave could easily turn around a 100% profit in less than a year compared to Apple's current profit margin average of just 27%.  Now when you consider that slave labour directly accounted for 50-60% of the US's GDP around the time of the civil war you get the see the mechanics of the numbers.